everyone Lazlo Montgomery again part 7
today in this overview of life and times
premier Joe and lie we looked at his
upbringing in Hawaii on and jung-soo
province growing up in a well-off family
that had seen better days than his time
spent in Eng NAT nan Chi middle school
later Japan followed by the may 4th
movement which impacted Joe and everyone
else who later on played a starring role
in the establishment to the PRC from
these days in Tianjin Japan and then
later in France Joe and I became known
throughout the communist movement to
someone who knew how to get things done
because of his ability charisma
good looks and people skills he became a
leader and someone universally admired
for his ability to organize lead teach
and keep cool under sustained pressure
Joe's education continued on in Europe
from 1922 1924 and we saw how his
abilities to organize and manage affairs
and France got noticed in this led to
his appointment at the Whampoa Military
Academy where many of the greatest PLA
generals were his students from there
Joe began his steady ascent up the CCP
ladder we know from the series from past
CHP episodes 1920 to 1930 in China was a
dangerous time and Joe had more than his
share of close calls
dodging Chiang kai-shek secret police in
Jung drove Joanne line pretty much
whatever was left of the CCP and
Shanghai in to Mao Zedong's world he was
creating at Jing Gong shun and from that
moment at the bitter end of 1927 all the
way until the day he died Joe's life was
tied to Mouse and that as it turned out
in the end didn't work out too well for
Joanne lie over the last six episodes we
saw how magnificently if you'll permit
me to use the M word Joe performed as a
planner and organizer a manager of
people a cultivator of relationships a
diplomat a comer of waters all
willing to take the middle road for the
sake of a greater objective he was a
role model to everyone who knew him but
that Chairman Mao aspect of his life the
things he had to do perhaps willingly at
first but later on as we saw last
episode unwillingly against his
conscience in time and again Joe and I
surrendered to his first impulse loyalty
to Mao the anti-rightist campaign the
Great Leap Forward political destruction
of punga why Joe knew these and many
other acts were counterproductive and
that there were other ways to engage the
masses and prove the superiority of
Marxism Mao didn't become the thing he
became simply because he was talented
and charismatic he had help along the
way
mostly from a handful of man Joe of
course was one of them so was Judah Leo
Shao Qi dung shel ping Yuen Shanklin
Punk John and of course punked my butt
last episode he got his for daring to
point out an obvious mistake tomorrow
and call it for what it was by
sacrificing Poong the others who I just
named they all fell into line and knew
what was at stake if they rose up to
challenge Mao or even question his
wisdom the scale of the national
suffering was of such a magnitude unseen
in the lifetime of these leaders that
Mao well you didn't have to take a walk
of shame but he did have to come out and
say you know okay okay wasn't such a
good idea
he sort of stepped back and took his
lumps to some extent and from 1962 to
1965 Mao sorta got kicked upstairs and
the country was gradually put back
together we'll look at this period today
this is the last decade of Joe's life
his final ten years ran from December
1965 to January 1976 too bad for Joe and
live that it had to end this way we see
and Joe and Lai going all the way back
to nan Chi middle school that he had
this obvious talent to lead and build
consensus he served China well as the
first premier of the State Council take
the lead role in erecting the State
Council and breathing life into it he
also did an admirable job as China's
foreign minister and even earned the
admiration of those who were not his
friends in this capacity he became the
face of China to the world if he had
only been left alone unhindered by Mao
and the Chairman's power struggles and
bad ideas to guide China to greatness
from 1949 and 1976 but that wasn't meant
to be
there were always political
considerations and following the party
line in his remaining years Joe will
watch his comrades going back to the 20s
and 30s be purged one by one only he
will survive always number three it
wasn't easy
let's pick up from last time and get the
setup for the GPCR the great proletarian
Cultural Revolution
now the Cultural Revolution has been
covered before in the eight part series
CHP 83 to 90 and in the dung shellping
series CHP 63 to 70 we also discussed
the Cultural Revolution and the boy ye
boy
and Sidney rittenberg episodes I'll try
not to get sucked in too deep here with
all details and minutiae of those ten
years from 1966 to 1976 but there's no
way to not talk about it so I'll try and
stick to the bullet points let's go back
to June 1960 when Mao started to back
down from his disastrous policies he
instructed many of the top leaders to
tour the countryside and investigate the
extent of the problems one of the main
policies that was being investigated was
the impact of these communal mess halls
demanded by Mao versus everyone else
making their own three squares a day at
home you know what happens when the
kitchen is open all the time you don't
have to pay for anything people do what
people do and they did it in China too
people ate more than their share and
before long there wasn't enough left to
go
around nobody liked these communal mess
halls and they were a major contribution
to the hunger problem and
dissatisfaction among the masses this
whole thing was done away with after the
results of a fact-finding mission Joe
took from quail young and great Joe
province two villages in hebei on May
3rd 1961 he pulled into the booming
laoshu of Boyan there's this there's
this film that came out a few years ago
it was called Joe and Lida suka Juliette
that translates to Joe and lies for days
and nights the English title of the film
was called the story of Joe and lie I'll
put a link to that film on my website
you can watch it in its entirety with
subtitles on YouTube it starred one th
hung who I think holds the record for
portrayals of Joe and lie and Chinese
cinema it's propaganda of the highest
order but hit me reaching for my hanky a
few times the movie portrays Joe at his
saintly best but that aside the film
does offer a little bit of historical
value you see in 1961 in the midst of
the famine when Joe had traveled all
over China to meet with local cadres the
one who was willing to speak the truth
that's how bad it was in this world
turned upside down no one wanted to risk
the wrath of the party by speaking up
and pointing out the obvious so in this
movie
Joe meets with the party cadres in FOIA
and at first they just shine aman saying
yeah all spine here there everyone's
eating well but soon the truth is
revealed and after a couple heartfelt
talks between Joe and this old granny
who once made noodles for thumb chopping
a yobbo Chong when they passed through
the village during the second
sino-japanese war and again during the
Civil War
she told the premier what the true story
was and that these communal mess halls
did more harm than good little by little
the premier dragged the truth out of
these wooden mean and understands the
wisdom and their advice so from this
visit
Choa gathered the facts and reported
accordingly to Chairman Mao and from
this moment followed the whole
readjustment of rural policies including
these unpopular communal mess halls that
of course led to the gradual eradication
of hunger in the countryside 1960 to
1962 Jo and lies main job was to lead
the government response to the famine
this meant hands-on involvement talking
to party leaders in the provinces
diverting grain and resources handling
one dire and desperate situation after
another China even had to do the
unthinkable and purchase grain from
Australia and Canada not only were
people starving but coal supplies were
low as well this was the primary source
of energy and the people suffered
because of this as well as for lack of
food the energy problem was also handed
to Jo to deal with and he tackled this
matter by assigning trusty old gu mu to
manage the crisis in the 1980s thunk
Xiao ping will rely strongly on Kumu to
implement all his new economic policies
and experiments Jo had a lot of great
underlings who acted as competent
extensions of their boss later on the
wall get struggled against when the GPCR
hits a fever pitch by the end of 1961
the agricultural crisis had reached its
nadir and it was looking like a comeback
was in the making now continue the lay
low and had been forced to say the words
he hated most I made a mistake yeah my
was brand really took a beating he had
gone and purged pongo Hawaii and went
after everyone else who thought like
Poong now all along Poong was right so
you can imagine how mom must have been
feeling right about now he was really
gonna get spanked badly in January in
February 1962 at the 7000 cadres
conference here in this theatrical
performance arranged and choreographed
by Beijing Party boss and mayor Poong
Chun ma was criticized left
right but no criticism came from Joe
after everyone had their chance to point
their finger at Mao Joe stood before
everyone and took mousehole bad idea and
claimed ownership of it he heaped blame
on himself for getting Mao all wrong and
because of this the mistakes of the
Great Leap were made by himself and not
by the Chairman well Lin be AO went and
did the same thing Mao had gone and made
Lin the successor to Poong death why as
defense minister and for this Lin Bao is
gonna take the glorification and
deification of Mao to Heights no one
else not even mild himself could do and
he gave a superb performance at the 7000
cadres conference while pang John gave
everyone a forum to criticize the great
leap ie
Mao Joe and I and Lin Biao countered all
the negative though for different
reasons in 1961-62 Joe once again tried
to improve the lot of intellectuals in
the role they should play in China just
as it started to gather some momentum
there was rather harsh pushback from the
leftist Mao had granted Joe this
Authority but when the premier went for
help and defending against attacks from
the left-mouse I'd to look the other way
he might have felt one way a few months
before but once again mile retreated
from this and showed his true colors and
that was being one himself he just
couldn't trust these intellectuals in
society July 1962 the sino-soviet split
was in the midst of happening there were
minor clashes in Xinjiang and Soviet
support for India against China and the
border war of October of that year and I
suppose as China's premier you could say
Joe had a hand and everything but as far
as the sino-indian war went he really
got involved he had by now this very
strained relationship with Nehru in the
1950s they were BFFs the whole McMahon
Line thing were the borders between
India and China had been
drawn were swept under the rug
now the rug had been pulled away and
Nehru decided in 1962 that it was time
to take back this Indian territory from
China Joe believed this was gonna be a
terrible mistake for neighbor oh and he
tried very hard to reason with the
Indian later but Nehru had had enough of
Joe and saw in him someone who was
silver-tongued but totally untrustworthy
despite Joe's warnings neighbor went
ahead and invaded and on October 21st
the Chinese army counter attacked and
over a two-week period just completely
overwhelmed and defeated the unprepared
but extremely brave Indian army then Joe
did a little of his magic on November
11th and called for the PLA to
unilaterally withdraw behind the McMahon
Line he made sure all captured weapons
were returned to India all Indian
soldiers who were ki a were buried with
military honors and 3,000 POWs including
officers were returned to India and of
course word got out about what Joe had
gone and done and Nehru looked like a
jackass and never recovered from this
whole mistake of October 1962 and as bad
as neighbor who ended up looking that's
how good Joe and lie in the country he
represented looked in front of the whole
world or at least to those paying
attention to this conflict Joe couldn't
have looked more magnanimous in victory
despairs Khrushchev and the Soviet Union
were concerned the long slide down hill
was still going on Mao and Khrushchev
who he called the chieftain of modern
revisionism feuded openly and there was
no love lost between these two very
heated exchanges took place in the good
old days when Russia acted as China's
law cuca we're long gone on top of the
red hot fiery diplomatic exchanges
between China and the Soviet leaders
Khrushchev also went on the offensive
internationally calling on all the
same non-aligned nations that Joe had
targeted from the end of 1963 and into
1964 Joe will launch his own
international charm offensive to counter
the Soviet attempt at diplomatically
isolating China
did I mention Chairman Mao cajole and
lie in charge of China's program to
build an atomic bomb now Joe was of
course heavily involved but he had
delegated his best man
dunk Xiao ping to handle the day-to-day
project management with Purdue
University educated scientists thunk
Josh in in July 1955 Joe had invited two
experts
Lisa Guang and chiang saen chang to his
joan on high office to discuss the
feasibility of china going it alone on
the matter of developing nuclear weapons
remember the Soviets wouldn't help them
out after listening to these two
brilliant scientists and reporting his
positive findings with Mao the Chairman
gave the go-ahead to develop atomic
power specifically a bomb so Joe became
sort of the general Leslie groves of
this Chinese version of the Manhattan
Project or project five nine six as they
called it and Joe in his capacity as the
top guy in all State Council was able to
rally to the cause twenty ministries 20
provinces and 900 factories research
institutions and universities in
November of 1962 work began while the
country was still technically suffering
from the famine a nuclear testing
facility was set up in the town of law
Papua
aka lap nor in Xinjiang province work
proceeded at a quick pace and by January
1964 Joe was informed that enough
enriched uranium had been achieved and
they were almost ready
on April 11 1964 Joe began discussing an
actual test date and looking at the
situation and what was ready to go he
was decided October 1964 would be the
testing window
then on October 15th 1964
Nikita Khrushchev was overthrown in a
coup and replaced by Leonid Brezhnev the
very next day
China tested its first atomic bomb and
it was a success you can't imagine the
surge of optimism that permeated you'll
not hi at this time the despised
Khrushchev who had mocked into rided Mao
and openly disrespected him was gone
just like that
rather unexpectedly and then the very
next day after hearing such fantastic
news China blows off their first bomb
what a joyous occasion Joe of course
gave full credit to the Chairman mom I'm
quoting from Hounsou Ian's book again
about what French Prime Minister Georges
Pompidou wrote following the a bomb test
quote immediately
China's situation in the world was
changed now there was talk of her being
seated at the United Nations for her
participation at such-and-such a
conference the moment approaches when
the United States will have to recognize
the People's Republic of China end quote
in the ebullience afterglow of
Khrushchev's overthrow mouse sent Joe
and lye to Moscow to go fill up Brezhnev
and Alexei Kosygin and see what their
thoughts were with regard to sino-soviet
relations the hope was that Leonid
Brezhnev would be someone China could
get along with better well that little
get-together didn't go too well for Joe
he went to Moscow with her long to
attend this event the 47th anniversary
of the October Revolution basically
after all the talks the end result was
that there weren't going to be any
changes with respect to Soviet attitudes
and foreign policy towards China in
other words although Khrushchev wasn't
around anymore
his China policy was if that wasn't bad
enough that one of the receptions Joe
sat next to the Defense Minister Rodion
Malinovsky
one of the heroes of the Battle of
Stalingrad Malinovsky maybe had one
vodka too many he was a military man
more than a diplomat he made a remark to
Joe Oh
in front of everyone standing around
that it sure would be a good thing for
sino-soviet relations of Mao wasn't
around yeah then he followed that up was
saying quote we Russians got rid of
Khrushchev and you should do the same
thing with Mao and quote well even if
malinovski thought that way the minister
of a foreign country let alone the
Defense Minister shouldn't say to the
head of a sovereign state yeah you guys
should overthrow your leader so Joe got
up registered the strongest possible
protest and stormed out of the hall who
long was right there and he just laid
him to malinovski and gave him a piece
of his mind the press were gathered
round and caught the whole thing the
news went out on the wires that the
Soviets and Chinese had come to some
kind of understanding whereby Mao was
gonna step down and Joe would become the
new chairman this was a potentially
explosive situation but actually when
you look at his whole life Joe and I
always knew what to do in these kinds of
situations he who should a quick public
denial of the statements made by defense
minister malinovski bombs this big
needed to be diffused at once no waiting
he left Moscow early got on a plane and
headed back to Beijing and when he
landed at Capital Airport guess who was
there to greet him with a bouquet
yeah Chairman Mao himself let me tell
you mom never did that for anyone so
with that this potential tempest didn't
even make it to the inside of the teapot
no harm no foul
also happening against the backdrop of
everything I mentioned so far is the
Vietnam War yeah that's also starting to
percolate and this too was Joe's
headache you know very close personal
relationship with Ho Chi Minh going back
to his Paris days in the early 20s the
French were gone with China's help if we
remember from a past episode and now
it's Uncle Sam's turn to go in and prop
up that government of North ending by
1961 LBJ was calling though the
Churchill of Asia so you know what Joe
and I had to be thinking this early in
the game by 1962 the US Air Force was
already spray
Agent Orange over the forests of North
Vietnam and a year later in 1963
Buddhist monks were setting themselves
on fire in the streets of Saigon and
presidents Moe and Kennedy will be
assassinated these were pretty
significant events and greatly impacted
Cho's management of the Vietnam
situation so Joe and I knew the US was
fixin to stay a while down in Vietnam so
once this became obvious he met the
thumb Vaughn dong in Guangzhou and it
didn't exactly give him a blank check
but he said China would pick up a lot of
the expenses to arm 230 infantry
battalions which was certainly a better
deal than Stalin ever offered to China
Joe assured the leaders of North Vietnam
as well as Laos and Cambodia the US was
getting into a war they could not win
and to expect that this might last five
years or more and most important of all
China stood behind them no matter what
the US could not be allowed to succeed
in quelling the Vietnamese communists
and setting up a puppet regime there Joe
didn't want to see this in the Northeast
during the Korean conflict
and not now in the south along the
Yunnan guanxi border after the Gulf of
Tonkin incident on August 2nd and 3rd
1964 Joe called for mass protests in
China to vent against the US over 20
million people were mobilized in a short
time to take to the streets in February
1965 they squeezed one and a half
million people in Tiananmen Square to
protest the American imperialists
despite all this Joe still had his back
door channels with the US government at
this time 1964-65 Pakistani President
Ayub Khan was the go-to guy to pass
messages back and forth to the u.s. Joe
used president Khan to warn the u.s.
that China wasn't gonna do anything to
provoke a war but the same deal with the
Korean War would be applied here if the
u.s. goes into Vietnam and starts
something China is gonna come in with
avenged
throughout 1965 Operation Rolling
Thunder going on American combat troops
landing at Danang and with more than
200,000 on the way by years and Joe and
like included the US was acting
aggressively enough whereby he swung
into action being the essential guy at
the center of things in the government
Joe did everything in his formidable
power to gear China up for this Vietnam
war with the US organs were set up
inside the government specifically to
deal with all the aid and support
required by the North Vietnamese already
China had given their all to aid the
cause of the North Vietnamese with the
building of the so-called Ho Chi Minh
Trail this road stretched from Yunnan
Province all the way down to South
Vietnam it was the Burma Road of the
Viet Cong supplies food ammo and
everything else requested by the
Vietcong that China could provide was
sent down this path the American bombed
it mercilessly the Chinese had troops
and engineers working alongside the
Vietnamese doing all kinds of civil
construction work and sure enough every
now and then the US Air Force would
encroach on Chinese airspace and would
be met with stiff resistance once again
us-china relations was having a bit of a
rough ride prior to all this back in
December 1963 Joe went on a 75 day grand
tour of Asia and Africa the worst of the
great leap and famine was over and it
was time to go hit the road again and
repair all the foreign policy damage
brought on by those four years of
upheaval the foreign minister was now
chummy but this trip was meant to be
very high-profile and Joe accompanied
China to add to the star power for the
rest of December 1963 to February 1964
when you know who were playing The Ed
Sullivan Show Joe went to Egypt Algeria
Morocco Albania Tunisia Ghana Mali
Guinea Sudan Ethiopia Somalia Burma and
Pakistan it didn't go so smoothly that
every stop in Cairo for example Nasser
gave Joe the cold shoulder he was deep
in the Soviets pocket in 1963 and didn't
want to be seen rubbing elbows with
China's premier so not much was
accomplished much to Joe's chagrin he
was counting on good relations with
Gamal Abdel Nasser and was hoping he'd
be an ally but Brezhnev got to him first
in Algeria Joe was trying to muster up a
follow-up conference to bond dong as a
means to counter growing Soviet
influence the whole thing never got off
the ground and was seen as a major
political embarrassment to China and
certainly to Joe and Lai when his plane
touched down in Ghana there was
political unrest in cartoon Joe had
thanked his hosts for killing General
Charles Chinese Gordon in 1885 a man who
had so much Chinese blood on his hands
Joe reached out in 1962 with a similar
charm offensive targeting the overseas
Chinese they had mixed feelings about
Joe but he knew of their importance and
did what he could kourt's their support
of China these overseas trips didn't go
as smoothly as Joe had hoped but he
still got out there and flew the flag
and did all the necessary work that
needed to be done to build and
strengthen China's foreign relations
which in the 1960s wasn't the easiest
job in the world when Joe and I and
changhie got back to Beijing they found
some factions were pointing fingers at
them and criticizing them for some of
the things they said and for some of the
failures of the mission Leo xiaochi for
one made his dissatisfaction known now
in between the Great Leap Forward and
the Cultural Revolution was another one
of
brainstorms and anyone in a big company
knows when the boss calls a meeting and
is jonesing about an idea or pet project
and so it was with mouse third front
movement known in Chinese as the
sunshine jinsha this is a big topic
that's sort of an episode and its own
right so I won't get bogged down in the
details and what merits came out of this
except to mention that it was added also
to Joe's plate so you could see 1964 was
a was a hell of a year for Joe and ly
now the Third Front really became a
thing for Mao in 1964 right after the
Gulf of Tonkin Resolution when the US
military showed their hand
mouths worry was that too many strategic
national assets were clustered close to
the East Coast all the major population
centers now with nuclear bombs and
missile technology already starting to
really ramp up with the US Soviet space
race Mao said you gotta get these basic
industries far away from these
vulnerable locations close to the
eastern seaboard the third front was of
course in the provinces that were
farthest from the coast which made them
the most backward and poorest at least
back then Ching hai Ningxia your nan
guacho su chuan GaN soup so once again
Chan young boy bought the futon and
their network of specialists and to redo
the third five-year plan with this third
five-year plan these leaders were
finally saying let's take care of the
big three first Church Wan Yan food
clothing and BLP stuff you needed every
day daily use articles get these basic
necessities of life finally out into the
market now of course at other ideas the
third five-year plan put heavy industry
at the bottom priority
so now Mao called for heavy industry to
become the top priority and the name of
the game was to build an entirely new
heavy industrial base and these far and
distant places and remember China's
transport network
in 1964 1965 was not like it is today in
China 2016 it was a monumental waste at
a time when the toxic cleanup from the
last bad idea had only just been
completed but Mao felt an attack from
Russia or the US was never more possible
than at the present time and this whole
Third Front thing needed to happen for
the sake of the nation's defense so any
major state-owned enterprise that was
considered too important to be bombed
were moved out to this Third Front in
the northwest and southwest of China
people would have to wait a little bit
longer for these new clothes and young
pean now what is Joe's role in this he
didn't personally manage the whole
affair he had leave food fun and others
to handle that but when Chairman Mao
wanted to know at 4:00 in the morning
what was up with the Third Front
movement he called Joe he didn't call
those guys so this whole Third Front
movement he had to squeeze this one in
along with performing CPR in the country
after the Great Leap Forward and the
subsequent famine managing the
development of the atomic bomb working
with Chun Yeon foreign policy dealing
with the rapidly escalating Vietnam War
and managing all the ministers under the
State Council not many people know this
story but in addition to dealing with
all these very grave and serious
responsibilities Joe also in 1964 acted
in the role of impresario for a stage
production called marched forward under
the banner of Mao Zedong Thought from
the title you can guess what it's all
about it was sort of like a four hour
long
greatest hits of all China's best
revolutionary songs going back to the
1940s this had a cast of 2000 and played
night after night to the masses later
was turned into a movie called
the East is read don't find home Joe got
involved in every detail from the
production writing directing down to the
scenery and makeup it was one big fat
glorification of chair
and Mao and wasn't any different from
the kind of nauseating staged rallies
limpio used to arrange two mouths glory
you see there's a very strong argument
out there saying the bad Mao as opposed
to the good mouth was a creation of men
like Jo Lin Biao Xiao Qi dong Xiao ping
and others who made him a law unto
himself completely unassailable then
when the Cultural Revolution came around
and Red Guards in 1967 1968 were all
over the place
smashing things up they realized only
too late the error of their ways on May
14 1965 China tested another atomic bomb
as this was happening my was busy
planning the Cultural Revolution 1965
1966 Mao was talking plenty about
exporting revolution and supporting
revolutionary causes elsewhere there was
the unsuccessful coup attempt in
Indonesia October 1965 the Communist kpi
suffered a horrifying setback for this
to Joe and I got an earful from Leo
xiaochi about being responsible for this
debacle
yeah and in 1965 you could tell
something was going on with Leo xiaochi
president state chairman and vice
chairman of the party if Leo had any
thoughts about moving in on Chairman Mao
and relieving him of some of his power
there was no better time than the
present 1964 1965 Mao was still laying
low and carping about being treated like
a dead ancestor he sat there and stood
over all his comrades and their seeming
backsliding on their revolutionary
spirit and resorting to capitalist
measures to solve problems well Joe
didn't plant the Cultural Revolution
with mom he was a tool of Mao
manipulated into carrying out his end of
mouthes plan he didn't know the big
picture in the beginning when Maya was
setting everything up when it's all over
1976 Joe would be the one and only top
leader who survived the Cultural
Revolution without being purged
but that didn't mean he had it easy his
well-known role during the Cultural
Revolution was to firstly carry out
Mouse orders but at the same time don't
allow the country to go down the toilet
he had to wave that little red book as
much as everyone else but he also had to
keep a lid on the worst excesses there
are many stories of people he saved I'll
get to a few in a moment but most of the
time he had to remain silent
and stone-faced when some of the worst
atrocities were committed the stories of
course very well known Mao went after
Punk John first and he was able to bring
a super heavyweight like Punk John down
by first attacking the Beijing literary
establishment and if you're a call from
those past episodes Mao used his wife
John Ching to lead the attack over the
past thirty years going back to the yen
on period this woman had built up quite
a long list of grudges there were so
many scores to settle and people she was
itching to get even with first she went
after Beijing vice mayor and Ming
Dynasty expert Wuhan by pointing to the
play he wrote in 1961 hi ray dismissed
from office this was a play about
something that happened in the Ming
Dynasty but John King insisted it was an
allegory for Mao's dismissal of punga
why it probably was Pung John refused to
print this highly inflammatory essay
written by yawen yen and mouths behest
Yao was later part of the Gang of Four
now yawen yen wrote the article but
believe me when I say it went through
several drafts all of which had mouths
edits in the margins the article ran and
the shanghai went Weibo but Mao also
wanted this criticism of Wu Hans play
printed in the Beijing papers Poong was
not doing it finally after the ground
started to shake from Mao's anger and
everyone saw what was happening Joe and
I had to step in and tell Punk John
better print that article you have no
choice not much of a choice for
John if he printed the article he was
committing political suicide if he chose
not to print it he was openly defying
Mao nobody so far had gone and done the
ladder and lived to tell about it
so pong printed it but had it buried
inside the people's daily he has an
academic matter which was not as serious
as a political matter which would have
gone on the front page that wasn't what
Mao wanted this was a front page manner
no heads were rolling yet but everyone
knew something was up Mao hadn't been
residing in Beijing for a while he had
gone and disappeared to the south
Shanghai Wuhan and Hangzhou mostly he
was always on the move
staying out of sight freaking everyone
out no less with his extended absence
the attack against Wuhan and Poong Chang
was just his opening move the ultimate
target was Leo Shao Qi but Mao had to
get rid of those men first one way ma
was able to get around the system was to
issue these central directives or Chung
hua Chong means center fire means to
issue this was like an executive order
but unlike when the president of the
United States does this Mao didn't have
any pesky congressmen pushing back and
saying he couldn't do that this was how
he went and did things during the
Cultural Revolution he kept issuing
these strong fires that no one could do
anything about first he issued the Chung
Phi to get rid of Young shun-kun who
headed the central office Jung was an
ally of Leo sha Chi so he had to go same
with war reaching law was a direct
competitor of Lin Piau Mao and Lin put
their wives to good use Mao is John
Ching to get rid of punk Chen and Wuhan
and for long reaching Lin bi used his
wife yet you know Jiang Qing gets all
the glory of being the most insidious
bloodthirsty character of the Cultural
Revolution but Lin bi wife yeah and it
was a very close second
she had a Colonels rank in the military
but her husband was the defense minister
so she probably didn't have to work too
hard to achieve that high ranking yeah
Chen took more reaching down
by going after his subordinate shall
shine wrong this was meant to provoke
law which of course it did and before
long simple-minded law reaching got
tangled up in the mess and as it so
often happened during the worst years
the gpcr Jo got called in to lead him
and later many others to the
executioner's ground December 11 1965
Joe told law to get down to Shanghai for
a meeting when he arrived law was met by
Joe and dong who told him what was up
they'd let him know he was in trouble
and not to dare try calling Mao or Lin
Bo law was not a politician he was a
military man and his record and list of
achievements was admirable Mao really
hated to destroy him but Lin Bo wanted
this guy out in fact all these top
ranking military men Lin knew they
weren't gonna side with him so he needed
to get rid of him at this meeting
Laurie Ching was taken down hard you
know how they do it these purges are all
the same law tried in vain to defend
himself his old comrades Joe Enlai the
Oh Xiao Qi thumb Xiao ping Judah these
guys are are criticized for their lack
of backbone and their failure to
collectively stand up to mom and like I
said the charges against law we're all
being made by yet shin Lin's wife a
colonel destroying a general and a long
march ER at that but in order to enhance
Lin Qiao's position and power in the
military law had to go Mao reluctantly
gave the okay Lin Biao ongoing support
was important to Mao for now at least
so those leaders they could have stood
up and said to Mao this was not only a
bunch of BS but completely objectionable
for the way it was being done allowing
someone the likes of yet cinta to lead
the charge
despite their inner outrage they just
sat back and watched it happen maybe
this could have been the time
the time now could have been stopped but
they all looked down at their shoes and
didn't challenge miles at dawn so this
silence was mouths blank check to keep
on going so they let this happen and
then pretty much after that there was no
stopping Chairman Mao on March
eighteenth nineteen sixty-six more
attempted to commit suicide by jumping
off the roof of his house which in the
CCP way of looking at things was a
bold-faced admission of guilt so Laurie
Chang arrival to Lin pe'ahi was out Punk
on arrival to Mao he was out - by April
1966 everyone knew which way the wind
was blowing and it was time to start
getting on board that Mao train and to
try and cover up for any past displays
of diminished enthusiasm for whatever
Mao had called for the lead-up to phase
one of the Cultural Revolution saw the
rise of the central Cultural Revolution
group or CCR G and other leftist taking
over in the Politburo the CCR G reported
directly to the Standing Committee but
they were Mao's chief political power
tool Mao had two main levers of power
one was the Cultural Revolution group
they managed the Cultural Revolution and
then there was the party center that
controlled day-to-day affairs of the
party then came the fifty days between
June and August this is all in 1966 by
this time US b-52s were carpet-bombing
in North Vietnam and the anti-war forces
were starting to stand up the Vietnam
War and the ongoing aid and support for
the North Vietnamese military was
something Jo had to deal with on a daily
basis while all these seismic political
matters were going on when Mao told the
students they should rebel and all hell
broke loose they might remember from
past episodes it was Joe and Lai who
often had to get personally involved
many times he got called in as the last
resort to face down the hotheads and
belligerent forces with an axe to grind
about something or other
about walking a fine line Joe had to
know how to talk the talk and appease
the leftist but at the same time keep
the increasingly dysfunctional state
chugging along in at least a diminished
conditioned Joe knew better than to not
take these students and radical
seriously between the end of April's
1966 and the end of the year Joe had the
referee 40 meetings between feuding
redguard factions it's hard to imagine
the pressure the premier was feeling
every word he uttered being analyzed or
later possibly used against him who's a
very precarious path trying to take the
middle course and Joe was under constant
threat of attack for his less than
Shepherd support for the leftists more
outrageous demands it was an endless
task for Joe to keep his finger on the
pulse of all these red guard factions
differing ideologies if Joe and Lai had
not been in the center of things pushing
back sometimes having to out quote some
red guard leader with regard to what
Chairman Mao said civil order would have
broken down that's a major reason why
Mao kept an eye on Joe and made sure as
long as Joe toed the line he'd be
protected Mao knew what he was doing
with this upheaval he was creating Joe's
role in the grand scheme of things was
to keep the country going Joe personally
showed up at all these different
revolutionary meetings at campuses and
workplaces he had to stand up with his
little red book in hand and encourage
all the revolutionary fervor and at the
same time he had to preach usually in
vain for non-violence and for the Red
Guards to use words rather than physical
force and their struggles with these
enemies of the Cultural Revolution and
when Mao welcomed all red guards come
visit them in Beijing when all the
rallies were happening someone had to
arrange for all the transport for
millions of out-of-towners as well as
for three squares a day at a place for
everyone to flop these and other
of gargantuan ad-hoc responsibilities
they got regularly dumped on Joe and lie
as if he didn't already have enough on
his plate not to mention his political
and physical survival if you remember
mom blew everything up politically and
left Leo xiaochi in charge to clean up
the mess with them Xiao Peng he made
them sweat a little as they remained
helpless in their efforts to rein in the
chaos
maybe Mao and Zhang Qing we're having a
nice laugh over this watching their
political enemies trying to extinguish a
house on fire with one single bucket of
water then in July 1966 mial took his
famous swim across the yong started
traveling in the direction of Beijing
this kicked off phase two of the GPCR
then at the famous Trump Central
Committee the 11th plenum of the 8th
Central Committee Leo Shao Qi dropped
from number two to number eight in the
standings Joe and lie still held strong
at his perpetual number three position
bad news for Joe though one smile said
bombard the headquarters Powell da
sitting boo and that the economy is of
secondary importance to carrying out
class struggle and people should create
revolution by making revolution it
became really hard to manage the
government let alone a foreign policy in
fact from about September 1966 to August
1967 Joe pretty much had to let China's
Foreign Relations take care of itself
August 18th November 26 you have the six
big rallies and then the unforgettable
year of 1967 descended on China Red
Guards were given carte blanche to seize
power in their cities and towns some of
the local people didn't just roll over
and die they stood up to the Red Guards
and said not on my watch and before you
knew it
China descended deeper into chaos now
let the destruction go on and didn't
rush to tell them be out a tamp it down
Joe was managing to survive using all
the available skills and his
chun-tae however didn't fare so well and
when his time came to face the music
that was Joe and Lai you had to preside
over Chinese humiliation in August 1966
after the four olds campaign was
launched old customs culture habits and
ideas were frowned upon these were the
days when the same kind of things the
Islamic state is doing in Syria and Iraq
and the Taliban and Afghanistan were
ancient treasures and places of great
national heritage work destroyed same
going on in China joy that jump in here
and named various places off-limits to
red guards the Forbidden City Dunhuang
grottoes and the Terracotta Warriors
were among the more famous sites
protected February 11 to 16 1967 was
another one of those chances where Joe
could've perhaps maybe might have been
able to stop chairman mao but he read
the political winds correctly and opted
to not side with his oldest and dearest
comrades going back to the earliest days
this february counter-current happened
and all these heroes of the revolution
who long tan john leaned Chagny
yet Chen Yin Xiu Shang Chen when they
all stood up and spoke from their hearts
and vented their outrage at the central
Cultural Revolution group Jo knew they
were dead jo knew how ma was gonna react
to these words said in anger by these
most courageous of men
jo wouldn't do it maybe if he did that
might have created a tipping point and
Mao might have back down but Mao threw
Lin Bo
controlled the PLA Jo knew how this
would play out if he defied Mao sure
enough Mao indeed turned his rage on
these men for their challenge to his
authority no one had ever done what they
did or said the unmentionable things
they said Jo again
I did with MAO all those guys went down
hard
1967 great year for music sergeant
pepper's magical mystery tour Velvet
Underground & Nico The Doors Hendrix are
you experienced yeah great for music bad
for China that was when Mao pulled out
all the stops told everyone to go smash
things up and take control from whoever
was in charge but by July 1967 mile gave
the okay to Lin Qiao to do away with the
red guards their usefulness had already
come and gone they had destroyed or
neutralized anyone Mao perceived as a
political opponent but before that fire
was put out there were a lot of close
calls and instances when good people
were about to get it and Joe was able to
use his wits and his authority to
protect them or in most cases I guess
diminish their suffering and humiliation
at least to some degree in the end
sometimes that's all Joe could do Wan
Guam make the elegant and attractive
wife of Leo Shao Qi she was the first
lady of China
guess who hated her Joe protected one
Guang Mei but she was one day tricked
into leaving the protective walls of
Jang nan hai someone said her daughter
was in some accident and as soon as she
was outside she was grabbed and then
once young Cheng had her won Guang Mei
had to endure several old-fashioned
struggle sessions word got back to Joe
and he sent one of his men to negotiate
a way out
Joe saved her this time but being the
wife of the number one target of these
whole 10 years of madness she had to
listen to Joe's advice and just be
strong and get through it Punk dawai he
had been for years sent far away from
the center down to Hoonah where he came
from he had been in disgrace
since speaking up at Liu Shan in 1959
the Red Guards have been itching to get
their hands on him but to no avail
when finally there
no escaping the wrath of John King and
the CRJ Pung had to travel to Beijing
the trip to Beijing itself and being
manhandled all along the way by red
guards caught up in the moment of having
such a legendary big fish as Pongo Hawai
in their hands and chains no less was
something Pung no doubt feared if he
survived Poong would have arrived in
Beijing not looking too good but Joe
stepped in for pom dawai and arranged
for his transfer to Beijing Joe gave
three orders on how Poong was to be
brought to Beijing under control of the
PLA not the Red Guards Joe's orders met
resistance all the way but at least Joe
was able to do something and one of the
darkest hours of this great Chinese hero
let me quote from Gawain Chen's 2007
book Joe and lie the last perfect
revolutionary quote years later
Pung spur 'sin elate decamp recounted
the dramatic impact that Joe's actions
had on the former minister of defense
and his memoir beside chief Pung when no
one was present I conveyed to pong the
three instructions that premier Joe had
issued for the moment the chief went
completely silent then he asked really
yes I responded and did he really call
me comrade pom wanted to know yes yes he
said it twice very clearly I said Poong
put his head in his two hands and turned
to the wall I could see his shoulders
tremble with excitement he only finally
turned around after quite a long while
end quote when it came time for pong to
go through his sessions even someone as
tough as he was who had suffered
challenges and hardships that would
break most men he got savaged he hung in
there until 1972 but John King saw to it
that he never had a good day he was
another one of her victims she wanted to
get him and when she was big and
powerful enough to do it she did it even
song Ching Ling how much more sacred can
you get the wife of Sun yat-sen for
crying out loud even she had the face of
harsh
tense moments she had snubbed young
Cheng and had been outspoken about what
she thought of this whole Cultural
Revolution thing so Jiang Cheng went
after this woman who's bona fides for
loyalty to the country were beyond
question even she had red guards bust
into her house cut off her hair and
smashed things up Jo got her out of
there brought her to a safe place and
called the authorities in Shanghai and
told him to go put her place back in
order there were others Marshall so long
another tragic victim Joe tried to save
him but to no avail
by 1967-68 John Cheng was the height of
her power and Joe practically worked for
her and by now those two hated each
other
Joe had outsmarted her and had used his
skills and relationships wisely to
always stay one step ahead of Jiang
Cheng and her various personal agendas
but after Mao had let the ccr G
essentially take over the government she
became his boss let me tell the story of
sunway shirt which can maybe he'll
astray Joanne lies impotence in the face
of Mao and Jung Chang and all these
leftist elements who were all lined up
against the premier swimway sure was the
daughter of martyred communists
something when someone very close to Jo
who was killed by the KMT back in the
bloody year of 1927 later on when sunway
sure was 18 years old she was taken in
and adopted by Joe and dummying Chau and
raised as their own daughter this
relationship ultimately brought her to
Yen on in 1938 sunway sure what is there
to say she was beautiful and vivacious a
free spirit and was in love with the
theater she was already a talented
actress when she came to Yen on 1938 and
guess who else was an actress and not as
good-looking and seven years older yeah
John Chiang and when a play was produced
in yen on and she got the minor role and
sunway sure got the lead John King never
again graced the stage with her present
from these times and Jana ching-ching
cultivated a great hatred for swim
it was intensely jealous of her remember
a couple episodes ago and Joanne life
fell off his horse broke his arm I
mentioned that was the reason and every
photo you always saw it shows arm bent
never straight his injury was attended
to in the Soviet Union and Sun way sure
his adopted daughter had accompanied him
and served as his assistant and later
stayed on in Russia and studied at the
Stanislavski theatre she was fluent in
Russian and later on also occasionally
served as an interpreter to Joanne live
well after liberation soon went on to a
great career in the Chinese Theatre 1956
she became the head of the Chinese
experimental theatre her whole life was
dedicated to this art and advancing its
development in China unfortunately
though she was not gifted with the
longevity to see it through as you can
imagine things like this were not looked
upon kindly during the Cultural
Revolution years so one way sure was an
easy target and her turn came in March
1968 Chang Ching who waited more than
three decades to get even had her
arrested
I guess who John King called in to sign
the arrest warrant John Chiang in 1968
was pretty damn powerful in that year
and she made Joe powerless to fight back
sign that paper that delivered his
daughter to someone who meant her
nothing except harm and with that Sun
way sure was arrested and taken to a
secret prison and basically tortured by
John Chiang for seven months before she
finally died from the ordeal Joe of
course demanded answers and rushed to
order an autopsy
John Chiang had her cremated immediately
so Joe and Lai ya he was number three in
the party yeh was the premier of China
but he wasn't so powerful that he was
able to save his own family even sunway
sure his ashes were not given to Joe so
that was the story of swoon way sure it
reads like a novel when you look at her
incredible life her loves and her
passions the number of tragic stories
from the 10 years of chaos like some way
shares are endless so as I said earlier
although we can say Joe was the only one
of the surviving comrades from the long
march to not get purged during the GPCR
it's not like he had a free ride well we
are way past stoppage time here in this
episode more next week the worst is over
as far as the Cultural Revolution is
concerned but there's still a whole lot
of fires premier Joe is gonna have to
put out before he goes and gets sick
that's all for next time in lieu over at
babel carp comm @e lexicon once in a
while I try and slide these things past
him without him catching it and once
again he got me I mentioned last time
the thai prince whaling on joe and lie
at ban dong about china inciting unrest
on the Yunnan Thai border sha there's no
border between Thailand and China chiang
rai is a good 150 miles from xi Shuang
fine nah but it was around there thanks
Lou
I'll get you next time okay that's all I
got for you today
lszl montgomery signing off from sunny
Los Angeles we have the hottest February
on record thank you very much this
so-called rainy season is not turning
out like the weatherman said el whoo
take care everyone and please please do
consider joining me next time for
another maybe maybe not final episode of
the Jo and ly history podcast